# Tracking Workers and Objects in Construction Sites through Bluetooth Low Energy Technology
Here are codes and datasets of a Real-time Localization System (RTLS) through Bluetooth Low Energy Technology.
The main goal of the developed system is to track workers and objects in construction sites by considering various aspects affecting the RTLS applicability in the construction domain, including portability, affordability, scalability, and high positioning accuracy. In the proposed RTLS, the beacons replaced the commonly used receivers for the first time in localization that makes the system independent from wiring work and DC power supply, resulting in substantiality increasing the system's applicability on-site.

For this purpose, the beacons’ configurations are tuned, and a record correction algorithm is developed to solve the shortage of BLE packets limited payload that the receiver relies on to broadcast the location data to the gateway. Besides, a modular system infrastructure placement plan is proposed based on the effective devices' range to minimize the number of required devices on-site and improve the localization accuracy. The proposed localization estimation model leverages the placement strategy to categorize the records based on the estimated distances and the transmitter's position and finally localize them based on a developed technique for each category.

## Real-time Localization System (RTLS)

### Module 1 (Data Pre-Processing)
Firstly, this module is meant to pre-process the raw dataset coming from Elasticsearch in order for the raw dataset to be in a suitable format for localization. Secondly, the (x,y) coordinates of the fixed transmitter on-site replace the IDs of the transmitters. Finally, a Semi-Logical record to Logical record converter Model is used to increase the ratio of the Logical records to improve the accuracy of the system. In order for a Semi-Logical record to be converted to a Logical one, the third broadcasted transmitter should be substituted with the one which belongs to the same module of the other two transmitters. The substitution of the third transmitter is made by applying a set of processes on the Semi-Logical records. Firstly, the algorithm calculates midpoints (Xh1, Yh1) and (Xh2, Yh2) which are between the location of the third transmitter (X3, Y3) and the other two (X2, Y2) and (X3, Y3). Then, the middle point between the previously found midpoints is calculated (Xm, Ym). This point acts as a guide that specifies the approximate area where the third transmitter should be associated with. In the next step, the distances of the guide point from the transmitters except those already included in the record are calculated. After that, the transmitter whose distance from the guide point is minimum is considered the correct third transmitter in the record. In the final step, the predicted transmitter replaces the old one by keeping its RSSI value.

### Module 2 (RSSI-distance Prediction through a Machine Learning Model)
In this module, the distance between the trasnmiiting and receiveing beacons is estimated through the Recieved Signal Strength Identity (RSSI). Random Forest (RF) is deployed for the RSSI-distance prediction model. In-lab experiments for the development of RSSI-distance relationship were conducted. The receiver beacon was placed on seventeen reference points (stations) which were marked at 25 cm intervals on a straight line with a total length of four meters, to ensure the exact position of the beacon while conducting the experiment. The experiments were performed for four orthogonal orientations of the transmitting beacon, with respect to the receiving beacon. Moreover, the experiments were repeated three times at each station, to obtain a consistent dataset of RSSI values per each reference point. The receiving beacon was moved from the first station (distance from transmitting beacon = 0) to the seventeenth reference point (distance from transmitting beacon = 4.0 m). The staying time of the transmitting beacon at each reference point was one minute. In the interest of time, the same settings were implemented on two parallel straight lines, two meters away from one another. Random Forest (RF) is the machine learning model that was trained. A random forest is an ensemble of multiple decision tree sets with the following modification: each node of a tree represents a best split for one specific attribute. Only a subset of attributes which are specified is considered for the splitting rule selection. After that, the erection of new nodes is repeated until the stopping criteria are met.

### Module 3 (Localization through a Combination of Triangulation and Min-Max Techniques)

### Module 4 (Estimated Locations Post-Processing)

